The first is leadership and communication skills.
These would include verbal skills, written skills,
interpersonal skills, and leadership skills.
And by the way,
all of those are covered in one of my other courses titled Leadership
and Communication Skills for Software Engineers,
so you might want to check that out.
The other key skill group is what I'm calling practical team management skills,
which is what this course is all about.
The term practical is important and I would like to emphasize it here.
This course is concerned with the actual doing or the use of
something rather than theory and ideas.
My approach and management style includes a very practical approach,
keep your tools, processes, and approach to management simple,
give it a try, inspect and adapt, and move forward.
Think of this class also as a starter kit of tools,
processes and approaches to jump start or enhance your
management role or leadership role.
Now I'll give you a quick overview of this course.
Here's a rundown of the course modules.
The first: Aligning IT Activities to the Business.
Everything you do should make a difference to the business.
Next: Managing Customer Expectations.
Make sure what your team is doing is in alignment to what
your customer thinks you are doing.
Building Team Structure and Capabilities.
A good manager and leader knows how to organize the team and is
always improving their team's skills and capabilities.
Acquiring the Right Talent.
Team building is not just about building a team from the inside,
but also from the outside through good hiring practices.
Managing Through Effective Communication.
To excel at being a manager you'll need good written
and verbal communication skills.
And lastly: Promoting Productivity Through Team Processes.
In this module we will cover just how are you going to make software.
Okay, so what brings you to this course? Let's see.